add docs for TiFlash MinTso scheduler (#19222) (#19318)
pingcap/docs: tiflash/tiflash-mintso-scheduler.md

---
title: TiFlash MinTSO Scheduler
summary: Learn the implementation principles of the TiFlash MinTSO Scheduler.
---

# TiFlash MinTSO Scheduler

> The TiFlash MinTSO scheduler is a distributed scheduler for [MPP](/glossary.md#mpp) tasks in TiFlash. This document describes the implementation principles of the TiFlash MinTSO scheduler.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The TiFlash MinTSO scheduler is a distributed scheduler for MPP (Massively Parallel Processing) tasks in TiFlash. This document describes the implementation principles of the TiFlash MinTSO scheduler.
```

## Background

> When processing an MPP query, TiDB splits the query into one or more MPP tasks and sends these MPP tasks to the corresponding TiFlash nodes for compilation and execution. Before TiFlash uses the [pipeline execution model](/tiflash/tiflash-pipeline-model.md), TiFlash needs to use several threads to execute each MPP task, with the specific number of threads depending on the complexity of the MPP task and the concurrency parameters set in TiFlash.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When processing an MPP query, TiDB splits the query into one or more MPP tasks and sends these MPP tasks to the corresponding TiFlash nodes for compilation and execution. TiFlash needs to use several threads to execute each MPP task, with the specific number of threads depending on the complexity of the MPP task and the concurrency parameters set in TiFlash.
```
